• Post your pre-print into a repository with no restrictions. 
• Choose to publish on a gold open access basis in more 
than 40 of IOP’s wholly owned and partner journals. 
• Post the final published version of your article into a 
repository immediately when you choose the gold open 
access option. 
• Post your accepted manuscript into an institutional or 
subject repository after a 12-month embargo*, regardless 
of which journal you publish in (with reuse restrictions) 
– also known as green open access or self-archiving. 
There is no charge for this. This is applicable for all articles 
published in IOP journals. 
• Publish under a CC BY 3.0 licence* when you choose the 
gold open access route. 
• Be compliant with the NIH, OSTP and RCUK, and the 
majority of policies on open access. 
• Be confident that your paper will be preserved for the long 
term in the scientific record in services like CLOCKSS and 
PORTICO. 
• Be confident that the peer-review and production services 
you receive will be of the highest quality. 
• Guarantee that your work is discoverable on search 
engines and in the major indexing services. 
Open access is a way for authors to share articles that they have published in scholarly journals 
with their research community and the wider public, at no cost to the reader. 
When we talk about open access, two different ways of delivering access to research dominate 
discussions. The first – gold* open access – means that the final published version of an article 
has been made free to read online with additional usage rights. This is normally paid for by an 
author, their funder or by some other means. The second – green* open access – means that 
a version of an article has been made available (normally with more limited reuse rights) in an 
online repository, either hosted by a university or in a separate dedicated subject repository. 
What is IOP Publishing’s open access policy? 
IOP Publishing (IOP) is committed to providing long-term, sustainable access to quality scientific research for everyone, while 
maintaining high-value, trustworthy author and reader services, which enhance scientific communication and progress. 
In practical terms, this means that as an IOP author you can: 
* See the glossary on page 3. 
Find out more at <a href="http://iopscience.org/openaccess"> 
Open access publishing 
Key information for authors

1 What kind of open access do you and your co-authors 
want for your article? 
Generally speaking, there are two main routes to making 
your article available on an open access basis. 
• Gold – an article publication charge is paid in return for 
full immediate open access of the version of record of 
an article. 
• Green – you place the accepted manuscript into a 
repository, normally after an embargo period. 
2 Does your funder/institution have an open access 
policy? 
It is critical to establish if your funder or institution has a 
preference/policy for open access publishing and how 
this is compatible with your publishing preferences. 
3 Are your co-authors bound by any open access 
requirements? 
Different institutions have variable open access 
requirements. The differences could be around what 
copyright licences can be used for or what funds are 
available. This may affect your publishing choices. 
4 Does your preferred journal provide the open access 
options you need? 
Different journals and publishers have variable open 
access policies. You will need to check that your preferred 
journal is compatible with any policies you are required 
to comply with. All IOP’s journals have information about 
their open access options accessible from the journal 
homepages. 
5 If you choose green open access, what is the 
publisher’s embargo period and which repository will 
you choose? 
There might be guidance on this in your institution’s/ 
funder’s open access policy. You or your co-authors 
might have a preference regarding subject repository 
vs institutional repository. You can check the SHERPA 
RoMEO’s directory for a journal/publisher’s copyright 
policies and self-archiving policies, but these do change 
so it is worthwhile checking with the journal itself. For 
reference, IOP has a 12-month embargo period for green 
open access but there may be some exceptions at a title 
level that need to be checked. 
6 If you choose gold open access, what is the article 
publication charge you need to pay and where will you 
get the funds? 
Funding might be available through your research grant, 
via your department or via your library. IOP also offers 
discounts for referees for gold open access publishing. 
The article publication charge for IOP journals ranges from 
£1200 to £1700, depending on the title. Full details are 
available at <a href="iopscience.org/openaccess">. 
7 What is the copyright/licence policy of the publisher, 
i.e. how can the published work be reused? 
The most commonly used licence for gold open access 
publishing is CC BY, which has liberal reuse rights 
attached to it. However, articles made available by green 
open access might not have the same reuse rights. 
If CC BY is not appropriate for your paper then please 
contact us at copyright@iop.org to discuss options. 
8 Does your preferred journal meet your quality 
standards? 
The same assessments of a journal’s quality that you 
would normally apply should be used to scrutinize open 
access journals in terms of status, scope, suitability, 
publication speed, Impact Factor, article-level metrics, 
archiving policy and availability in indexing services, etc. 
Have you checked the background of the journal? How 
long has the journal been established? For example, is 
the journal you have selected registered with the Directory 
of Open Access Journals and is the publisher a member 
of the Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association 
(OASPA)? 
9 Where can I go to learn more about IOP’s open access 
policy? 
IOP’s open access policy is regularly reviewed. You can 
keep up to date at <a href="iopscience.org/openaccess">. You 
can also follow up with your subject librarian to learn 
what resources and support for open access exist at your 
institution. 
10 I’ve still got questions – who can I ask? 
If you wish to publish with IOP, we are always happy to 
offer help and guidance on any of the issues raised in this 
list. Please e-mail us at custserv@iop.org. 
Ten questions to consider when publishing 
on an open access basis 

Accepted manuscript 
The author’s original version of an article after any changes made during peer review but before any editing, typesetting, etc, 
by the publisher. 
APC 
The APC is a commonly used acronym that stands for article publication or processing charge. An APC is normally charged 
by a journal to make an article available on a gold open access basis. Some journals do not charge APCs where other funding 
models exist. 
Creative Commons 
Creative Commons (CC) is a non-profit organization that enables the sharing and use of creativity and knowledge through free 
legal tools. Find out more at <a href="http://creativecommons.org">. All CC licences are intended to work worldwide and operate within 
the boundaries of copyright law. 
CC BY 
This is the most commonly used Creative Commons licence for open access publishing. With this licence you are free to: 
• Share — to copy, distribute and transmit the work 
• Remix — to adapt the work 
• Make commercial use of the work 
Under the condition that you must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licenser (but not in any way that 
suggests that they endorse you or your use of the work). IOP has produced an introduction to copyright and licensing guide 
for authors. 
Embargo period 
An embargo period on green open access refers to the period of time set by a publisher that an author must observe before 
making their work publicly available to view in an online repository. For IOP journals this is 12 months although some exceptions 
may apply, please see the journal homepages for more information. 
Final published version 
The typeset and copy-edited version of an article published in a journal is known as the version of record or final published 
version of an article and includes all of its metadata and reference history, etc. This is the version that should be used for 
references and is the version used by indexers, etc. 
Open access glossary 
Hybrid journal 
A hybrid journal is a subscription journal that offers authors the option to make individual articles available on a gold open 
access basis on payment of an article publication charge. 
Pre-print or author’s original manuscript 
This is a paper before it has been submitted to a publisher. It might have been published online in a pre-print server but has not 
gone through peer review. 
Gold open access 
Gold open access is the model under which a fee is paid 
by the author, their institution or the funding body to 
make the article freely available to read and be reused by 
everybody. 
Green open access 
Green open access refers to self-archiving an article in 
a subject or institutional repository. It is generally the 
author’s final peer-reviewed version (the accepted 
manuscript before it is prepared for publication), not the 
published version. Articles are usually posted with 
an embargo. No contribution is made to the costs of 
publication and no charge is paid by the author. All articles 
published in IOP’s subscription journals can be posted in a 
repository with a 12-month embargo. 

