springer.com 
White 
Paper 
Open Access – 
broad readership, 
high impact 
What authors need to know and 
how they can benefit

Open Access – broad readership, high impact springer.com 
2 
Introduction 
Open access (OA) publishing has emerged as a viable publishing model. In an OA model, all 
costs associated with the added value provided by publishers are covered up front so there 
are no subscription costs or access fees for either the institution or the individual researcher. 
OA publishing delivers content at no cost to the reader and without restrictions, expanding 
access to literally anyone with an Internet connection and an interest in a given topic. This is 
an especially salient point for authors of scientific content. 
OA is no longer a new or experimental model. Over the past ten years, it has matured into one 
of the standard models with specific benefits for the academic community and it is a model 
whose growth continues to accelerate. 
This paper will provide an overview of the OA model and its evolution over the past decade. 
We will also look at the key benefits for authors of academic content. 
How does open access work? 
OA publishing removes barriers to accessing academic content. In a well-designed OA model, 
all participants benefit. Researchers and authors value the broad access to and visibility of 
their research. Academic institutions, funders and societies see benefits from research that is 
freely available, helping them to achieve their mission to develop and disseminate knowledge 
in a particular field of study. And society as a whole will see positive effects, as researchers and 
non-researchers alike gain access to high-quality academic scholarship. 
OA publishing uses two basic models: Green OA (also referred to as self-archiving) and Gold 
OA. Green OA is the practice of placing the accepted version of an author’s manuscript into a 
repository, making it freely accessible for everyone.1 
Gold OA, which will be the primary focus of this paper, makes the final version of an article 
freely and permanently accessible for everyone, immediately upon publication. It also 
removes most of the permission barriers, allowing unlimited re-use and distribution. Gold 
OA articles can be published either in hybrid journals or in fully OA journals. A hybrid journal 
is a subscription-based journal that offers an OA option; fully OA journals on the other hand 
exclusively publish OA content. 
Gold OA publishing is not without costs and publishers defray these costs through so-called 
article-processing charges (APCs). APCs are levied after article acceptance, at the beginning 
of the publication process, and vary depending on the respective publisher, journal and 
discipline. There are also journals that do not charge an APC; however in these cases, the 
Research funding includes 
Research funding not intended 
My institution paid 
I paid myself 
Other 
How was the publication fee covered? 
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 
2,669 (28%) 
2,992 (31%) 
2,356 (24%) 
1,179 (12%) 
449 (5%) 
Source: “Open Access Publishing today: 
what scientists do and why.” 
Talk given at the SOAP Symposium, Berlin, 
January 13, 2011, http://de.slideshare.net/ 
ProjectSoap/soap-symposiumtalkiii 
“…scientists now have the 
satisfaction of seeing the results of their 
research available to a large audience 
in a much quicker timeframe. Another 
enormous advantage of open access 
publishing is that research results, 
once they are available in the open 
access space, will remain accessible 
indefinitely and will continue to be 
available to ever increasing numbers of 
researchers.” 
Heinz Pampel, Coordinator of the 
Open Access Project at Helmholtz 
Association, Germany 
“...scholars write journal articles for 
impact, not for money. In the age of 
print, they had no choice but to publish 
their articles in journals of limited 
circulation. That’s no longer the case.” 
Peter Suber, Director of the 
Harvard OA Project and leading 
OA advocate 
1 Depending on the respective publisher´s policy embargo periods may apply. 

springer.com Open Access – broad readership, high impact
3 
processing and publication costs are covered by other sources, e.g. a sponsoring party like 
a society. Authors are responsible for paying the APC but they are rarely required to deliver 
the funds from their own pocket. In fact, the SOAP (Study of Open Access Publishing) project 
found that many researchers encounter few problems in sourcing the funding for the APC, 
although this varies by subject area and country. 
To support the benefits of OA, a large number of funders and institutions have made open 
access fees part of their general funding or have created funds dedicated to covering APCs for 
their researchers, faculty, members or scholars producing work in a particular field of study. 
More than 220 institutions and 90 funders all over the world have now made open access 
mandatory,2 and many have also signed OA initiatives including the Berlin Declaration (2003), 
which is endorsed by more than 270 leading research organizations and universities worldwide.
3 There are now more than 100 funds available to authors and the number continues 
to grow. Organizations such as the Austrian Science Fund (FWF), the European Cooperation 
in Science and Technology (COST) and the World Bank have also started establishing special 
funds for OA books. A list of OA funds can be found online in the Open Access Directory.4 
The development of open access 
The OA movement traces its origins at least back to the 1960s, but it was the advent of the 
Internet in the 1990s that fostered the rapid growth of OA publishing that has occurred over 
the last decade. The ability to publish a digital version of text online and make it immediately 
accessible to researchers worldwide provided an infrastructure that enabled broad 
distribution at comparatively low cost. Digital distribution has in fact been a driving factor 
in the rapidly increasing number of academic journals published each year. In 2012, there 
were about 28,100 active scholarly peer-reviewed journals collectively publishing about 
1.7–1.8 million articles a year. The number of peer-reviewed journals as well as articles 
published annually has been growing at a very steady rate of about 3% to 3.5% per year over 
the last few decades.5 During that same span of time, the vast majority of STM journals also 
became available online. And as digital distribution expands to reach more parts of the world, 
it continues to offer an ever-widening horizon of possibilities for authors to deliver more 
content in more ways. Physical proximity is no longer a requirement for conducting 
cutting-edge academic research. 
Another driving factor in the OA movement was the so-called ‘serial crisis’.6 Over the last two 
decades, prices for scientific literature increased steadily, while library budgets remained fairly 
static. Over time, the result was a decrease in access to published academic research. As a 
consequence, a chorus of prominent voices called for ‘digital equality.’ In essence, they argued 
for unrestricted access to scientific publications, particularly those that benefited from public 
funding. These critics argued that a researcher’s access to scientific information should not be 
limited by the size of their institution or budget. 
As discussed above, a number of leading institutions agreed and have since taken measures 
to broaden access to their publications. Many of them have adopted OA mandates, which 
require their members and faculty to make their research freely available to all. 
In an interview with Springer, Peter Suber noted that, “the number is not only growing, but 
the growth is accelerating. Funders are charities or philanthropies, and that explains why they 
grasp the logic of OA. If a research project is worth funding, then its results are worth sharing.” 
2 ROARMAP: Registry of Open Access Repositories Mandatory Archiving Policies, 
http://roarmap.eprints.org, status: September 2014 
3 Berlin Declaration, http://oa.mpg.de/lang/en-uk/berlin-prozess/berliner-erklarung, status: September 2014 
4 OA journal funds, http://oad.simmons.edu/oadwiki/OA_journal_funds, status: September 2014 
5 The STM report, November 2012, page 23, http://www.stm-assoc.org/2012_12_11_STM_Report_2012.pdf 
6 Open Access Overview, Peter Suber, http://legacy.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/overview.htm, status: September 2014 
“Open Access allows authors to 
(finally!) make their own decision about 
whether or not they want their work to 
be freely available. Authors can have 
the best of both worlds: if they prefer 
restricted access to a work they can 
publish in a paid-for journal but if they 
want wider access, they can publish 
open access.” 
Prof. Dr. Alexander Steinbüchel, 
Full Professor at the Institute of 
Microbiology, University of Münster, 
Germany

springer.com 
4 
Open Access – broad readership, high impact 
7 Mikael Laakso, Bo-Christer Björk (2012), “Anatomy of open access publishing: a study of longitudinal development 
and internal structure.” BMC Medicine. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-124, http://www.biomedcentral.com/ 
1741-7015/10/124 
8 Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ): http://www.doaj.org, status: September 2014 
9 Directory of Open Access Books (DOAB): http://www.doabooks.org, status: September 2014 
10 Society Publishers with Open Access Journals: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AgBYTDKmesh7dDZ6 
UnBfcnpOdVpnd3ptSnVpQ0xrenc#gid=1, status: September 2014 
11 BASE: http://www.base-search.net/about/en/index.php, status: September 2014 
12 More information on Springer’s OA portfolio can be found at springer.com/openaccess and springeropen.com 
Support for OA continues to grow, as demonstrated by the rapid expansion in the number 
of OA journals and articles published each year. Over the past decade, open access journal 
publishing has steadily grown at a rate of 1% a year. In 2011, an estimated 340,000 articles 
were published by 6,713 fully open access journals, which is about 17% of the 1.66 million 
articles indexed in Scopus, the most comprehensive article-level index of scholarly articles.7 
The Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) now includes nearly 10,000 journals,8 while 
the Directory of Open Access Books (DOAB) lists more than 2,200 titles from 75 contributing 
publishers.9 Furthermore, there are currently more than 850 societies publishing over 800 
fully OA journals,10 and the Bielefeld Academic Search Engine (BASE), operated by Bielefeld 
University Library and described as one of the world’s most voluminous search engines 
especially for academic open access web resources, counts over 40 million open access 
documents.11 
Information is becoming more widely accessible. The advent of digital publishing has 
provided the infrastructure to enable this shift; and OA provides an increasingly important 
publishing model. 
Academic publishers and 
open access 
Over the last few years, leading academic publishers have taken a forward-looking view and 
started embracing developments such as the OA movement. Springer has been at the 
forefront of OA publishing for many years and was the first major commercial publisher that 
took a constructive approach to the business model, preferring to experiment with it, rather 
than dismiss it. Springer was also the first major publisher to wholly embrace it. This stance 
contributed to the growth of the model, reinforcing its credibility and broadening its appeal. 
Springer follows the Green OA route, enabling authors to comply with institutional OA 
mandates by allowing self-archiving for articles published in its subscription-based 
journals. 
Springer also supports Gold OA through its various OA options. In 2004, Springer launched 
Open Choice, providing authors with the option to publish OA articles in the majority of its 
subscription-based journals. In 2008, Springer acquired the pioneering OA publisher 
BioMed Central, and in June 2010, launched SpringerOpen, its portfolio of peer-reviewed, 
fully open access journals covering all areas of science, technology, medicine, the 
humanities and social sciences. The portfolio ranges from very specialized titles to 
SpringerPlus, an interdisciplinary, open access journal.12 With over 38,000 open access 
articles published across all Springer journals in 2013 and more than 450 fully open access 
journals as of September 2014, Springer has now become one of the largest OA publishers in 
the world. 
“Working with Springer in launching the 
SpringerOpen Journal of Cloud Computing 
has been a wonderful experience, in large 
part due to the extensive support provided 
by Springer. Their pro-active approach to 
both marketing and submission processing 
has been highly commendable and 
invaluable in the early stages of life of the 
journal, and long may it continue.” 
Dr Lee Gillam FBCS CITP FHEA, Senior 
Lecturer, Department of Computing, 
University of Surrey, UK 
“The ESR has always had a policy of 
making congress material and many other 
publications available to its members. 
Making resources open access to all 
researchers makes knowledge accessible 
to everyone, not just to those who can 
afford it.” 
“We started publishing open access with 
Springer in 2011, and since then have 
been very happy with this cooperation. We 
appreciate Springer’s global network and 
international work as well as the support 
and professionalism of their entire team.” 
Stefanie Muzik, Head of the Scientific 
Publications Department of the European 
Society of Radiology

Open Access – broad readership, high impact springer.com 
5 
About 100 SpringerOpen and BioMed Central journals are fully sponsored by one or more 
affiliated institutions or societies; the remainder charge APCs. However, for many of these 
journals costs are fully or partly covered by institutions participating in Springer’s 
Open Access Membership Program. The membership program, with over 480 members 
worldwide as of September 2014, enables academic and research institutions, societies and 
funders to actively support open access by covering some or all of the publication costs for 
their researchers.13 
In August 2012, the growing demand for open access publishing and the success of Open 
Choice and its SpringerOpen journal portfolio led Springer to expand its offering to include 
OA books. Springer’s OA books are also published under the SpringerOpen brand and 
complement the established journal portfolio. The launch of these products underscores 
Springer’s continuing support for this important publishing model. 
Authors benefit from open access 
In addition to the positive impacts noted above, publishing under an OA model has numerous 
advantages for the authors of scholarly research. OA enables broader distribution, increased 
visibility, as well as retention of copyright, all without compromising the quality or reliability 
of the work. 
Reaching larger audiences 
The most obvious benefit of OA is access to a larger, international and more diverse audience. 
Thanks to unrestricted online access, OA enables more researchers to find an author’s work, 
leading to increased visibility and exposure. In addition, OA research can also find its way into 
the hands of non-academics, who may still have an interest in the research, increasing the real 
impact of the author’s work. 
Enhancing author visibility and reputation 
Increased usage means increased visibility for authors, elevating their profile and enhancing 
the reputations of the publications, societies and funding institutions with which they are 
associated. 
Providing high quality and standards 
In OA publishing Springer observes the same fundamental values that have made for great 
academic publishing for decades. At Springer, OA articles are subject to the same rigorous 
peer review process and editorial scrutiny as used with its subscription-based journal articles, 
so there is no question about the quality and reliability of the research. Furthermore, an easy 
to use online submission system and efficient production process enable immediate 
publication. 
13 More information at springeropen.com/libraries 
“We promote research across all fields 
and wanted it to be available to as 
many people as possible, so we chose 
the open access publishing model as it 
allowed this access without the barrier 
of a subscription. Adopting the open 
access model also helps us to achieve 
the aims and goals of our society.” 
“We are a small society so being able to 
partner with a world leading scientific 
publisher such as Springer is a great 
opportunity. We benefit from their 
professionalism, excellent editorial 
support and marketing capabilities, 
which not only help to promote our 
society but encourage new members 
to join.” 
Aamir Shahzad, M.D., 
Secretary General and Director of 
Administration of the International 
Society for Translational Medicine

Open Access – broad readership, high impact springer.com 
Get connected with us! @SpringerOpen and @BioMedCentral SpringerOpen 
A01240R | EB-12 B | Image page 1: Gudella/iStockphoto 
Copyright and Creative Commons 
At Springer, authors retain copyright to their work and OA articles are published under 
the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license, providing authors with a liberal 
arrangement covering their rights. Under this license, articles can be freely redistributed and 
reused as long as the original author is correctly attributed. Springer is also a partner in the 
CrossCheck initiative, protecting authors from potential plagiarism. 
Complying with OA mandates 
The use of the CC BY license also allows authors to easily comply with the OA mandates of 
their academic institutions and funding sources. The final version of an article can be 
deposited in bibliographic databases and institutional repositories without any embargo 
periods. 
Citation tracking and inclusion in bibliographic databases 
An increasing number of OA journals are citation tracked and assigned Impact Factors, 
allowing authors to gauge the reach of their work in OA journals, just as they can with 
subscription-based journals.14 The Journal Citation Reports® by Thomson Reuters lists 
179 Springer open access journals with a 2013 Impact Factor. All open access articles are 
included in major bibliographic databases, including Scopus, PubMed Central and Google 
Scholar, so that the work can easily be found and cited by researchers around the world. 
Conclusion 
OA has emerged as a viable, fully developed publishing model. The benefits of OA publishing 
for researchers, authors and readers as well as academic institutions, societies and funders are 
numerous and far-reaching. OA provides unlimited access to scientific information without 
any sacrifices in terms of quality of the work or protection for the author’s contribution. 
Authors and academic societies alike should evaluate their publishing partners to understand 
their approach to OA and to ensure that they have an integrated, forward-looking digital 
strategy; one that expands access to content, and does so with minimal restrictions and limitations 
for the user. Springer has a long reputation for innovation and quality and has been a 
leader in OA publishing since its inception. 
14 Lists & Infographics. High-Impact Open Access Journals, UOC Virtual Library: http://bit.ly/1wppfe9, 
status: September 2014 
Would you like to know 
more about Springer’s 
open access portfolio? 
Visit us at springer.com/ 
openaccess 
BioMed Central 

