Your Guide to 
Publishing Open Access 
with Elsevier

2 Elsevier 
What is open access? 
The term open access was first used in 2001 when the Open Society Institute established 
what is known as the Budapest Open Access Initiative (BOAI). Their goal was to create a set of 
recommendations, which were designed to provide the public with unrestricted, free access to 
scholarly research. Since then, the term open access has been defined by different groups in 
different ways. 
In general, open access stands for the free and permanent access to published research, combined 
with clear guidelines for readers to share and use the content. There are two main types of open 
access: gold and green. 
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GOLD AND GREEN? 
GOLD OPEN ACCESS GREEN OPEN ACCESS 
Access • Free public access to the final 
published article. 
• Access is immediate and permanent. 
• Free public access to a version of 
your article. 
• Time delay may apply (embargo period). 
Fee • Open access fee is paid by the author, 
or on their behalf (for example by a 
funding body). 
• No fee is payable by the author, as costs 
are covered by library subscriptions. 
Use • Determined by your user license. • Authors retain the right to use their 
articles for a wide range of purposes. 
All open versions of your article should 
have a user license attached. 
Options 1. Publish in an open access journal. 
2. Publish in a journal that supports open 
access (also known as a hybrid journal). 
1. Link to your article. 
2. For selected journals Elsevier makes 
the articles freely available after an 
embargo period in the open archives. 
3. Self-archive your manuscript.

Your Guide To Publishing Open Access 3 
Publishing gold open access 
with Elsevier 
WHAT IS AN OPEN ACCESS ARTICLE? 
Publishing your research as an open access article with Elsevier will mean that it: 
• is peer-reviewed. 
• is immediately free to access online upon publication. 
• can be shared and used by readers as defined by your user license. 
• has an open access fee paid by you, or on your behalf (for example by your institution 
or funding body). 
TYPES OF JOURNALS WHICH OFFER GOLD OPEN ACCESS 
1) Open access journals 
These are journals that publish all their articles open access. They do not have any subscribers, 
and instead everyone can read all the content online for free. Elsevier publishes over 
120 peer-reviewed, open access journals, including Cell Reports and The Lancet Global Health. 
2) Hybrid journals 
These are journals that support open access and are basically two journals in one: a 
subscription journal and an open access journal. After acceptance you can choose how you 
wish to publish your article. This allows you to continue to publish in important journals in 
your field, while also deciding how you want to broadcast your research. These journals provide 
an alternative way for authors to comply with open access policies of their institution and/ 
or funding body. Elsevier offers an open access option in over 1600 established subscription 
journals that support open access publishing. 
3) Journals that change to open access 
Some established journals in your field may change into an open access journal. After the 
change, the journal will no longer have subscribers and instead an open access fee is payable by 
the author or funding body on their behalf. Previously published articles will remain accessible 
by subscription, with newly published articles being available as gold open access. 
4) Subsidized journals 
These are open access journal which enjoy the full support of the affiliated organization or 
society who provide funds to cover all the costs of publication, including the open access 
for all authors. Therefore the journal is both free to read and free to publish in for everyone. 
Elsevier publishes a number of these journals on behalf or societies and organizations. 
We recommend that you always check the Guide for Authors for information about your 
journal’s open access policy. 
To discover Elsevier’s open access options visit www.elsevier.com/openaccessoptions

4 Elsevier 
ACCEPTANCE PUBLICATION 
Indicate your intention to publish 
gold open access in the Rights and 
Access form. 
Article is published open access 
online with your selected user license. 
Sign a publishing agreement which 
will determine copyright. 
Choose a user license. 
Indicate if you are funded or not. 
If you are funded by an organization 
we have an agreement with, we will 
give you further information about 
how to comply with your funder’s policy. 
Pay an open access fee. This is covered 
by either: 
• You – often reimbursed. 
• Your institution or funding body. 
• Or a society or organization when 
publishing in a subsidized journal. 
If your funding body has an agreement 
with Elsevier, they will be credited on our 
platforms for funding the open access 
publication of your article. 
During typesetting and formatting 
Crossmark is added to ensure 
all versions link to the .nal 
published article. 
The article is permanently preserved and 
accessible via Elsevier’s platforms. 
Open access articles can be immediately 
posted to an institutional or subject 
repository. 
PRACTICAL STEPS TO PUBLISHING GOLD OPEN ACCESS WITH ELSEVIER

Your Guide To Publishing Open Access 5 
AUTHOR 
Retains copyright 
PUBLISHER 
Grants publishing 
rights 
USER LICENSE 
READER/USER 
Granted rights to 
reuse the article 
Publishes article 
under the user 
license 
What is the license process? 
Step 1: Authors sign a publishing 
agreement where they will retain 
copyright but grant publishing 
rights to the publisher. 
Step 2: Readers can use and 
share the article as defined by 
the user license. 
Step 3: The author grants the 
publisher the right to publish 
the article under the applicable 
license. 
Step 4: The publisher makes the 
article available online with the 
author’s user license. 
Understanding the legal fine print 
For gold open access publishing you need two types of licenses: 
1. COPYRIGHT 
Publishers need certain permissions in order to publish and share your research. These 
permissions are defined by what is known as a journal publishing agreement or license. 
Elsevier uses an exclusive license agreement for gold open access articles, which means: 
YOU KEEP : ELSEVIER IS GRANTED: 
• The copyright of your article 
• Patent trademark and other intellectual 
property rights in your article. 
• The right to request others to provide you 
with an appropriate credit for your article 
when it is referred to, or appears in 
another work. 
• The right to use your own article in the 
same way as readers defined by your 
selection of user license (see page 6). 
• An exclusive right to publish your article. 
• The right to share your article in all formats 
so your research is widely distributed after 
publication, using the latest technology. 
• The right to publish your article with your 
selected user license on our online platforms. 
• The right to enforce your user license, on 
your behalf, against third parties in the 
case of plagiarism, ethical disputes and 
fraudulent use.

6 Elsevier 
User License Read, 
print, 
download 
Redistribute 
or republish 
the final article 
(e.g. display in a 
repository) 
Text & 
data 
mine 
Translate 
the 
article 
Reuse portions 
or extracts 
from the article 
in other works 
‘Sell ‘ or 
re-use for 
“commercial 
purposes” 
Commercial 
license: 
CC-BY 4.0 
3 3 3 3 3 3 
Non- commercial 
license: 
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 
3 3 3 3 3 7 
*for private 
use only 
and not for 
distribution 
2. USER LICENSE 
The user license of an article determines how readers can share and use your article without the 
need to request permission. Before publishing open access, we recommend you to: 
• Understand what each user license permits and the rights it grants to readers to use your article. 
• Check if your funding body or institution requires the use of a specific license in their policy. 
• Read your journal’s Guide for Authors to ensure they offer the license you want to use. 
• Visit the Creativecommons.org site to read what to consider before selecting a user license. It is 
important to note that your license selection is non-revocable. 
At Elsevier we give you a choice of user licenses so you can select the license which suits your type 
of research. Below is a quick reference guide what each license permits readers to do:

Your Guide To Publishing Open Access 7 
Publishing green open access 
with Elsevier 
WHAT IS GREEN OPEN ACCESS? 
Green open access is the process of sharing a version of your subscription article online so that the 
public can read your research. This is often accomplished by linking to your article or by sharing the 
full-text which is sometimes known as manuscript posting or self-archiving. Linking can be done 
immediately to the final version of your article, but sharing the full-text of your article requires a bit 
more time and effort as you need to be mindful of when, where, and how this is done. 
You are able to link or share full-text, but there are some advantages to linking to your articles: 
• Maximize Research Impact – citation metrics and altmetrics are used to assess the impact of 
research, so it is essential that these are aggregated and shared. This is easier when you link to 
the full text rather than have multiple versions across different platforms. 
• Best Available Version – It is also important that you share the best available version, so readers 
can trust they are reading the most up to date, correct and citable version of your work. When 
linking, this is often done dynamically by publishers sharing their holdings information with 
both repositories and search engines, so readers will automatically get the best available version. 
• Article in Context – Another benefit of linking is that readers can benefit from finding other 
relevant articles, saving them important time in discovering research. This can occur in the 
context of a repository, where they can see other research from your institution or from the 
publishing platform. 
• More Efficient – Linking is also easier for authors as there is no additional step to deposit the 
full text version. You can continue to promote your research through our share link service. After 
publication you’ll receive a customized url which provides 50 days free access to your article, so 
you can promote it on all relevant platforms. 

8 Elsevier 
Elsevier Article Sharing Policy 
ELSEVIER SUPPORTS RESPONSIBLE SHARING 
Responsible sharing in line with copyright enables publishers to sustain high quality journals and 
the services they provide to the research community. Find out how you can share your research 
published in Elsevier journals – www.elsevier.com/sharing-articles. 
You can share your research at each stage of the research process: 
Share 
Presubmission Preprints1 can be shared anywhere at any time. 
PLEASE NOTE: Cell Press, The Lancet, and some society-owned titles have different 
preprint policies. Information on these is available on the journal homepage. 
After acceptance Accepted manuscripts2 can be shared: 
• Privately with students or colleagues for their personal use. 
• Privately on institutional repositories. 
• On personal websites or blogs. 
• To refresh preprints on arXiv and RePEc. 
• Privately on commercial partner sites. 
After publication Gold open access articles can be shared: 
• Anytime, anywhere on non-commercial platforms. 
• Via commercial platforms if the author has chosen a CC-BY license, 
or the platform has an agreement with us. 
Subscription articles can be shared: 
• As a link anywhere at any time. 
• Privately with students or colleagues for their personal use. 
• Privately on commercial partner sites. 
After embargo Author manuscripts can be shared: 
• Publicly on non-commercial platforms. 
• Publicly on commercial partner sites.³ 
¹ Preprint is your initial write up of your results and analysis that has not yet have been peer reviewed or submitted to a journal. 
2 Accepted manuscript is a version of your manuscript which typically includes any changes you have incorporated through the 
process of submission, peer review and in your communications with the editor. 
3 For an overview of how and where you can share your article, please see elsevier.com/sharing-articles 
In all cases: 
• Preprints and accepted manuscripts shouldn’t be added to or enhanced in any way 
to appear more like, or to substitute for, the final published journal article. 
• All posted articles should link to the final version via the Digital Object Identifyer (DOI). 
• Posted accepted manuscripts need to have a CC-BY-NC-ND user license. 
For more information, please see our open access policy at elsevier.com/openaccess. 
Should you have any questions, please contact our permissions helpdesk: 
permissionshelpdesk@elsevier.com or (+1) 800-523-4069 x 3808.

Your Guide To Publishing Open Access 9 
¹ Please note that Cell Press, The Lancet, and some society-owned titles have different preprint policies. Information on these is available 
on the journal homepage. 
² For the journal specific embargo period see the journal homepage. 
3 Published journal article: After peer review, the journal will finalize your article which includes copy editing, formatting and adding 
branding. This is the version which is published online and final version of record for your article. 
4 For more information about share links see elsevier.com/author-share-link 
At a conference You can always present your research in forms such as a presentation, or poster. 
For classroom 
teaching purposes 
You can use your article for your own classroom teaching and internal training 
at your institution (including use in course packs and courseware). 
For grant applications You can include your article for grant funding purposes. 
With my colleagues You can easily share your article with your colleagues through email. 
On a preprint server You can always post your preprint on a preprint server¹. Additionally, for 
ArXiv and RePEC you can also immediately update this version with your 
accepted manuscript. 
On my personal blog 
or website 
We recommend that you list all your publications and link back to the final 
version on ScienceDirect to make it easier for you to be cited. In addition to 
this you can also post your preprint or accepted manuscript and any gold 
open access articles on your non-commercial personal website or blog. 
On my institutional 
repository 
You can post your accepted manuscript immediately to an institutional 
repository and make this publicly available after an embargo period² has 
expired. Remember that for gold open access articles, you can post your 
published journal article³ and immediately make it publicly available. 
On a subject repository 
(or other noncommercial 
repository) 
You can always post your preprint version and you can also post your 
accepted manuscript after the embargo period² has expired. Remember for gold 
open access articles, you can post the published journal article³ immediately. 
On a Scholarly 
Collaboration 
Network (SCN), 
such as Mendeley or 
Scholar Universe 
Services such as SCNs enable authors to showcase their work, providing fast and 
effective ways to collaborate and disseminate research. Elsevier and a number 
of SCNs are working together to help to showcase your work by sharing links to 
published journal articles on author profiles. 
We encourage authors to share their research responsibly on SCNs. 
You can share your preprint, article abstract or a link to your article. 
Additional sharing options may be available, see www.elsevier.com/sharingpolicy. 
Social Media, such as 
Facebook, LinkedIn, 
Twitter 
Elsevier will send you a ‘share link’ 4: a personal, customized short link that you 
will receive after final publication of your article. It provides 50 days free access 
to your newly-published article on ScienceDirect to anyone clicking on the link. 
We encourage you to share this link on social media. After 50 days the share 
link will still work but automatically revert to a link to your full text article. 
I want to share my article 
© August 2015 by Elsevier. All rights reserved. Policies may change. For the latest policies see <a href="http://www.elsevier.com/sharingpolicy">

10 Elsevier 
Preparing your article for sharing 
User licenses 
When sharing your article publicly through green open access it is important to ensure that 
you continue to receive credit for your work and to also provide guidance as to how others can 
reuse your work. This is done by attaching a user license. Elsevier requires authors posting their 
preprint or accepted manuscript to attach a noncommercial Creative Commons user license 
(CC-BY-NC-ND). We are taking steps to automatically provide this on your accepted manuscript 
in the future. 
How to attach a CC-BY-NC-ND license: On your preprint or accepted manuscript add the 
following to the title page, copyright information page, or header /footer: 
Example: © 2015. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license 
<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"> 
You can also include the license badges available from the Creative Commons website to provide 
visual recognition. If you are hosting your manuscript as a webpage you will also find the correct 
HTML code to add to your page from www.creativecommons.org 
Linking to the final version of record 
It is also important to make sure that readers and users can find 
and cite your final version of your article from ScienceDirect. The 
way to do this is to include the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) link 
in your posted article. 
A DOI is a standardized method for identifying an electronic object and you can easily find your 
DOI under the title of your article. To convert a DOI to a Web address, add the following URL to the 
DOI: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/"> followed by your DOI number. We recommend you include this information 
to your title page or header/footer. 
Finding your accepted author manuscript 
In order to share your full-text article for green open access, you will need to retain the preprint 
and accepted manuscript version of your article. After acceptance, we understand that this may 
not be possible in all cases and have a simple way for you to retrieve your accepted manuscript 
from our submission system.* 
1. Log into Elsevier Editorial system (EES) and on your overview page you will see under 
the “completed” section, click on the link to “submission with a decision” 
2. This will bring your to an overview of all your submissions and you can simply click 
on the relevant article title 
3. A pop up box will appear where you can download a PDF version of the accepted manuscript. 
* This option is available in most of our journals which use the Elsevier submission system, however there are 
cases where journals choose opt not to use the system and in these cases you should use your own version. 
doi:10.1016/j.jalgebra.2014.11.015 
Robert May 
Show more 
Cell algebras

Your Guide To Publishing Open Access 11 
Impact of open access policies 
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT? 
If your funding body or institution has a policy on public access to research, you will 
need to be both aware of and then comply with the policy. In some cases it may affect how 
your research is evaluated or your ability to attract research funding in the future. 
IMPACT ON PUBLISHING 
Selecting an appropriate journal 
If you wish to comply with open access policies, you will need to understand what options are 
available in your chosen journal. We recommend you to: 
• Read the journal Guide for Authors and look for both gold and green options. 
• Look for funding body or institutional agreements with your publisher of choice, 
which will make compliance easier. 
• Look on your institution’s intranet for open access information and links. 
Paying for gold open access 
Your funding body or institution may have made funds available to cover associated gold open 
access fees. These can be either reimbursed to you directly from the funder or from a central 
fund held by the institution or paid directly to the publisher under a funding body or prepaid 
agreement. In other cases, your funding body may require researchers to use their grant funds 
to cover the open access fee. Elsevier has established a number of funding body and institutional 
agreements designed to make publishing gold open access easy for researchers. Please see: 
<a href="http://www.elsevier.com/fundingbodies">

12 Elsevier 
How will your open access article appear? 
After publishing your article gold open access, it is important to understand how it will be seen 
and found on ScienceDirect. 
EBioMedicine 
Human Kidney Disease-causing INF2 Mutations Perturb 
Rho/Dia Signaling in the Glomerulus 
Protein kinase inhibitor SU6668 attenuates positive regulation 
of Gli proteins in cancer and multipotent progentitor cells 
Volume 1, Issues 2–3, December 2014, Pages 107–116 
Original Article 
a Protobios LLC, Mäealuse 4, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
b Department of Gene Technology, Tallinn University of Technology, Akadeemia tee 15, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
c Institute of Technology, University of Tartu, Nooruse 1, 50411 Tartu, Estonia 
d Cellin Technologies LLC, Mäealuse 4, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
Show more 
doi:10.1016/j.ebiom.2014.11.009 
Alia Piirsooa,d, , , Lagle Kasaka,b, Mari-Liis Kautsa, Mart Loogc, Kairit Tintsd, Piia Uusend, 
Toomas Neumana, Marko Piirsoob 
Get rights and content 
Open Access 
Open Access 
Under a Creative Commons license 
Received 11 September 2013, Revised 18 December 2013, Accepted 2 January 2014, 
Available online 10 January 2014 
Open Access funded by Wellcome Trust 
All Journals 
in 
All Fields 
Search for 
Books Reference Works Images Advanced search | Expert search 
? Search tips 
Under a Creative Commons license 
Show less 
doi:10.1018/j.bbamer.2014.01.003 Get rights and content 
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) – 
Molecular Cell Research 
Volume 1843, Issue 4, April 2014, Pages 703–714 
Hua Suna,b,c, Khaldoun I. Al-Romaiha,b, Calum A. MacRaeb,c,d, Martin R. Pollaka,b,d, , 
in 
All Years to: 
Agricultural and Biological Sciences 
Hold down the Ctrl key 
(or Apple Key) 
to select multiple entries. 
Arts and Humanities 
Biochemistry, Genetics and Molecular Biology 
All Fields 
Refine your search 
Journals 
AND 
2005 Present 
All 
My Favourites 
Subscribed publications 
Open Access articles 
Books 
Search 
- All Sciences - 
1. Open Access label 
Your article will appear online with a 
label ‘open access’. Your research will 
also be labelled in keyword search results 
as open access. 
EBioMedicine 
EBioMedicine: Bridging Two Cultures to Improve Health 
Protein kinase inhibitor SU6668 attenuates positive regulation 
of Gli proteins in cancer and multipotent progentitor Volume 1, Issue 1, November 2014, Pages 1 
Editorial 
a Protobios LLC, Mäealuse 4, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
b Department of Gene Technology, Tallinn University of Technology, Akadeemia tee 15, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
c Institute of Technology, University of Tartu, Nooruse 1, 50411 Tartu, Estonia 
d Cellin Technologies LLC, Mäealuse 4, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
Show more 
doi:10.1018/j.ebiom.2014.10.007 
Alia Piirsooa,d, , , Lagle Kasaka,b, Mari-Liis Kautsa, Mart Loogc, Kairit Toomas Neumana, Marko Piirsoob 
Get rights and content 
Open Access 
Open Access 
Under a Creative Commons license 
West Africa is currently in the grip of the worst outbreak of Ebola virus in documented history, 
eclipsing past outbreaks in terms of both the number of people infected and the number of 
fatalities. In the 38 years since the discovery of the virus, we still do not have an effective 
vaccine or antiviral treatment for this devastating pathogen, although at least three vaccines 
Received 11 September 2013, Revised 18 December 2013, Accepted 2 January 2014, 
Available online 10 January 2014 
Open Access funded by Wellcome Trust 
All Journals 
in 
All Fields 
Search for 
Books Reference Works Images Advanced search | Expert search 
? Search tips 
Under a Creative Commons license 
Show less 
doi:10.1018/j.bbamer.2014.01.003 Get rights and content 
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) – 
Molecular Cell Research 
Volume 1843, Issue 4, April 2014, Pages 703–714 
in 
All Years to: 
Agricultural and Biological Sciences 
Hold down the Ctrl key 
(or Apple Key) 
to select multiple entries. 
Arts and Humanities 
Biochemistry, Genetics and Molecular Biology 
All Fields 
Refine your search 
Journals 
AND 
2005 Present 
All 
My Favourites 
Subscribed publications 
Open Access articles 
Books 
Search 
- All Sciences - 
3. Finding your open access article 
Your article will be found in exactly the 
same way as a normal article. In addition 
to this, readers who wish to filter their 
selection on open access can do so with 
the advance search functionality. 
EBioMedicine 
EBioMedicine: Bridging Two Cultures to Improve Health 
Protein kinase inhibitor SU6668 attenuates positive regulation 
of Gli proteins in cancer and multipotent progentitor cells 
Volume 1, Issue 1, November 2014, Pages 1 
Editorial 
a Protobios LLC, Mäealuse 4, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
b Department of Gene Technology, Tallinn University of Technology, Akadeemia tee 15, Tallinn c Institute of Technology, University of Tartu, Nooruse 1, 50411 Tartu, Estonia 
d Cellin Technologies LLC, Mäealuse 4, Tallinn 12618, Estonia 
Show more 
doi:10.1018/j.ebiom.2014.10.007 
Alia Piirsooa,d, , , Lagle Kasaka,b, Mari-Liis Kautsa, Mart Loogc, Kairit Tintsd, Piia Uusend, 
Toomas Neumana, Marko Piirsoob 
Get rights and content 
Open Access 
Open Access 
Under a Creative Commons license 
West Africa is currently in the grip of the worst outbreak of Ebola virus in documented history, 
eclipsing past outbreaks in terms of both the number of people infected and the number of 
fatalities. In the 38 years since the discovery of the virus, we still do not have an effective 
vaccine or antiviral treatment for this devastating pathogen, although at least three vaccines 
Received 11 September 2013, Revised 18 December 2013, Accepted 2 January 2014, 
Available online 10 January 2014 
Open Access funded by Wellcome Trust 
All Journals 
in 
All Fields 
Search for 
Books Reference Works Images Advanced search | Expert search 
? Search tips 
Under a Creative Commons license 
Show less 
doi:10.1018/j.bbamer.2014.01.003 Get rights and content 
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) – 
Molecular Cell Research 
Volume 1843, Issue 4, April 2014, Pages 703–714 
in 
All Years to: 
Agricultural and Biological Sciences 
Hold down the Ctrl key 
(or Apple Key) 
to select multiple entries. 
Arts and Humanities 
Biochemistry, Genetics and Molecular Biology 
All Fields 
Refine your search 
Journals 
AND 
2005 Present 
All 
My Favourites 
Subscribed publications 
Open Access articles 
Books 
Search 
- All Sciences - 
2. Publication information 
Within your article, you will see an option 
for readers to find out more information 
about your publication by clicking the 
‘show more’ label. This section contains 
details on: 
a Funding body information 
b User license information 
ab

Your Guide To Publishing Open Access 13 
Your check list for publishing 
open access 
1) SUBMISSION: 
Check if your journal is reputable: 
Look through the editorial board for established and known editors. 
View recent publications in the journal. 
Check for societies affiliated with the journal. 
Check your open access options: 
Read your institution’s and/or funding body’s open access policy. 
Discuss your publication options with your co-authors. 
Read your journal’s open access options in the Guide for Authors. 
2) ACCEPTANCE: 
FOR GOLD OPEN ACCESS FOR GREEN OPEN ACCESS 
Indicate your intention to publish 
gold open access. 
Decide on a user license. 
Indicate your funding body information* 
Pay an open access fee if applicable. 
Indicate your funding body information1 
which may enable your publisher to help 
facilitate green open access options. 
3) PUBLICATION: 
FOR GOLD OPEN ACCESS FOR GREEN OPEN ACCESS 
Share your final published open 
access article. 
Share the share link to your article that 
provides 50 days free access. 
Check the embargo period for 
your journal on the journal homepage. 
Check your journal’s policy on 
self-archiving.2 
1For Funding Body Agreements see: <a href="http://www.elsevier.com/fundingbodies"> 
2For posting information see: <a href="http://www.elsevier.com/where-to-share">

14 Elsevier 
Elsevier and open access 
At Elsevier we recognize that access to quality research is vital to the scientific community and 
beyond. Our role is to help you advance essential knowledge, save lives, and improve the way 
we all live. We do this by providing tools and resources, greater author publishing choices and 
supporting open access implementation across the industry. 
Elsevier’s open access options: 
• Open access journals: over 100 journals to choose from. 
• Open access articles: over 1600 established journals support authors who want to publish 
their article open access. 
• Green open access: as an author you can share your research in a variety of ways with the 
wider public. 
Why publish open access with Elsevier? 
• Quality, established and reputable journals indexed by Scopus and supporting industry 
initiatives such as ORCID, Crossref and CHORUS to help maintain your publication record. 
• Reaching key audiences with 10 million active users per month using our publishing 
platform ScienceDirect. 
• Tailored open access publication choices so authors can decide how best to publish open access. 
© August 2015 by Elsevier. All rights reserved. Policies may change. For the latest policies see <a href="http://www.elsevier.com/openaccess">

Elsevier helps you publish your entire research 
process, from methods, to data, to software. 
Explore our suite of new concept open access journals. 
DISCOVER OUR INNOVATIVE 
OPEN ACCESS JOURNALS 
METHODSX 
MethodsX publishes the small but important customizations you make to 
methods every day. Get credit and exposure for the time, effort and money 
you've put in to making methods work for you. 
<a href="journals.elsevier.com/methodsx"> 
DATA IN BRIEF 
Data in Brief provides a way for researchers to share and reuse each other’s 
datasets. Make your data count – publish your dataset description with 
Data in Brief! 
<a href="journals.elsevier.com/data-in-brief"> 
SOFTWAREX 
SoftwareX is the open access home for your software. Publish your 
software in SoftwareX and get your software indexed, discoverable, 
accessible and citable. 
<a href="journals.elsevier.com/softwarex"> 

Useful Links 
Open Access 
<a href="elsevier.com/openaccess"> 
Policies 
<a href="elsevier.com/policies"> 
Funding Bodies 
<a href="elsevier.com/fundingbodies"> 
User Licenses 
<a href="elsevier.com/openaccesslicenses"> 
Promote Your Work 
<a href="elsevier.com/promote-your-work"> 
Share Link 
<a href="elsevier.com/author-share-link"> 
Authors’ Update 
<a href="elsevier.com/authors-update"> 
Journal Finder 
<a href="journalfinder.elsevier.com"> 
Publishing Campus Researcher Training 
<a href="publishingcampus.elsevier.com ">
Ethics in Research & Publication 
<a href="publishingcampus.com/ethics ">
Visit: <a href="www.elsevier.com/open-access-options">

