 Open Access Discounts and Agreements

The information below provides an overview of the arrangements by which open access article processing charges (APCs) are covered or reduced thanks to the University Library’s support. For a step-by-step process for making your work open, review the university library’s Open Access Publishing How-To Guide.

Full OA Agreements | What's Covered | OA Discounts | Publication Subvention Grant

"I quadrupled my peer-reviewed publications once I decided to switch to OA... I am thankful to ISU for negotiating discounts and full coverage of publishing charges."
Open Access Agreements

Under these agreements, all article processing charges (APCs) are covered by the University Library:
Agreements Currently in PlacePublisher	Eligible Authors	Publications
American Physiological Society (APS)1	ISU Corresponding Author	All APS Digital Library titles
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)	ISU Corresponding Author	All ACM journals, conference proceedings, and magazines
Cambridge University Press	ISU Corresponding Author	All CUP journals
Copernicus	ISU Corresponding Author	All Copernicus journals
De Gruyter2	ISU Corresponding Author	All hybrid De Gruyter journals and OA book chapters
Frontiers	ISU Corresponding Author	All Frontiers journals
F1000 Research	ISU Corresponding Author	All F1000 Research publications
Journal of Agriculture, Food Systems, and Community Development	ISU Corresponding Author	All JAFSCD articles
Open Library of Humanities3	All Authors	All OLH publications
Oxford University Press	ISU Corresponding Author	Nearly all OUP journals
Public Library of Science (PLOS)	ISU Corresponding Author	All PLOS journals
Punctum Books4	All Authors	All Punctum publications
Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC)5	ISU Corresponding Author	All hybrid RSC journals
Wiley	ISU Corresponding Author	All hybrid and full OA Wiley journals

1 In addition to free open access publication, faculty who serve as corresponding authors for APS journals, will be offered a free one-year APS membership through this agreement.

2 Journals not covered by De Gruyter directly include all full open access titles. You will need to forward your invoice to the University Library before you pay if you would like an APC in one of these journals to be covered.

3 Open Library of Humanities publications are open access without any publishing fees because their operating costs are covered by a membership model. The University library is proud to support OLH and their mission to make Open Access publishing easy and affordable for authors.

4 Similar to OLH, Punctum publishes all of its open access works free of charge. Iowa State University Library is proud to support Punctum's mission to provide free open access publishing services through their Library Membership Program.

5 Journals not covered by RSC directly include Chemical Science, RSC Advances, Nanoscale Advances, and Chemistry Education Research and Practice (CERP). You will need to forward your invoice to the University Library before you pay if you would like an APC in one of these journals to be covered.
How do I ensure that my article is covered?

Our open access agreements are worked out in negotiations with the publisher and each situation is unique. Because of this, there are very few rules that apply to every agreement.

    In most cases, all you need to do is submit your article. So long as you or another author from Iowa State is listed as the Corresponding Author on your paper, your article's APC will be covered by our agreement in full.
    In some cases, the publisher will "check" your affiliation with Iowa State by looking at the email your corresponding author has provided to see if it ends in @iastate.edu. In other cases, the submission system for the publisher may ask you to list your institution or choose it from a dropdown menu.
    For Cambridge University Press, Wiley, and DeGruyter, you may receive an email telling you that you qualify for coverage to make your article open access through the library's agreement. In these cases, you can choose to request coverage even if you were originally planning to publish your work behind a paywall.

If you have additional questions or concerns about our open access coverage, please contact Abbey Elder, the Open Access & Scholarly Communication Librarian.
Open Access Publishing Discounts

Thanks to memberships or agreements with these publishers, a portion of the article processing charges (APCs) for open access are covered by the ISU Library
Discounts Currently in PlacePublisher	Eligible Authors	Discount	Publications
American Chemical Society (ACS)	ISU Corresponding Author	25%6	All ACS journals
De Gruyter	ISU Corresponding Author	15%7	DG monograph publishing
Luminos	ISU Corresponding Author	10%	All Luminos monograph publishing
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute (MDPI)	ISU Corresponding Author	10%	All MDPI journals
The Royal Society	ISU Corresponding Author	25%	All Royal Society journals

6 This discount stacks with personal ACS membership discounts.

7 This discount applies to full open access monographs. The APCs for book chapters are covered in full (see OA agreement table above).
ISU Open Access Subvention Grant

An internal funding opportunity to partially cover the cost of publishing open access is available to full-time faculty and P&S staff at rank 37 or higher. The grant, Publication Subvention Grant For Open Access Journal Articles, covers half of the cost of an Article Processing Charge (APC) up to $1,250.

See the Publication Subvention Grants section of GrantsHub’s Internal Funding website for more details or to apply.

This grant is funded through a partnership between the University Library and the Office of the Vice President for Research.