
University Libraries Taylor & Francis Read and Publish Agreement

    Transforming Scholarly Publishing @ Ohio State

The Ohio State University Libraries and Taylor & Francis Group have entered into a Read and Publish agreement. This partnership is Ohio State's first read and publish agreement, and Taylor & Francis's first such deal in North America.

This agreement greatly increases Ohio State's access to Taylor & Francis journals, while also supporting Open Access publishing for Ohio State authors.

Under this three-year agreement, Ohio State will have ongoing access to Taylor & Francis's collection of more than 2,300 journals and Open Access publishing costs of articles published by Ohio State corresponding authors in Taylor & Francis journals that offer Open Access will be covered. The new agreement allows Ohio State and Taylor & Francis to pilot this approach from 2020 through 2022.

Beginning July 8, 2020, Ohio State corresponding authors can choose to make their articles published in Taylor & Francis journals that offer Open Access openly available at the time of publication at no cost to the author.

Details of the agreement…

The Ohio State University Libraries negotiated this three-year pilot agreement, at approximately $1 million per year, to greatly expand Ohio State's Read access to Taylor & Francis journals AND to include the Open Access publishing of Ohio State authors. Ohio State now has Read access to the full list of Taylor & Francis journals, an increase of nearly 1,800 titles, and will retain perpetual access rights for Read content published during the pilot period. The payment also covers the costs of opening articles for Ohio State corresponding authors. Authors choosing to take advantage of the pilot will select a Creative Commons license based on the choices offered by the journal and will retain copyright with an Open Access publishing agreement. The pilot agreement is based on Ohio State's previous publishing output data with Taylor & Francis. No contributions toward the APC costs from authors or funders will be required.

I’m a corresponding author at Ohio State. What do I need to do to publish Open Access at no cost to me under this agreement?

1. Submit your manuscript to a Taylor & Francis Open Select, Routledge Open Select, Taylor & Francis Open, Routledge Open, or Cogent OA journal. You should use an Ohio State email address and state your affiliation with The Ohio State University in your submission.

2. Once the article has been accepted, you (the corresponding author) will receive an email with instructions for publication.

    Choose "Yes" when you are shown the option to publish Open Access and select "Ohio State University" from the organization drop down menu when you enter the Quotation Service. You will then need to sign the Open Access Publishing Agreement.
    Or, you may also respond to the email from Taylor & Francis (within 7 days) if you wish to request Open Access. The Ohio State University Libraries will approve funding if eligibility requirements are met. You will receive an email informing you of the decision and a separate email with a link to sign the Open Access Publishing Agreement.

3. When choosing an Open Access publishing agreement, please select the Creative Commons license of your choice. You will not need to pay an article publishing charge (APC) to make your article Open Access if it meets the eligibility requirements and is approved for funding by The Ohio State University Libraries.

More information about the Taylor & Francis Read and Publish agreement is available in the FAQ below.

Please contact us, TransformPublishing@osu.edu, with any questions about the Taylor & Francis Read and Publish agreement.
University Libraries Taylor & Francis Read and Publish Agreement FAQ
What is a Read and Publish Agreement?

A Read and Publish deal is an agreement in which the publisher receives payment for reading, the subscription access to the content, and payment for publishing, the article processing charges (APCs), bundled into a single contract. The individual author publishing charges are funded by the contractual arrangement for those authors choosing to publish Open Access.
What is covered by the Taylor & Francis Read and Publish Agreement?

The Read and Publish agreement combines traditional subscription-based access to Taylor & Francis articles for the Ohio State community with immediate Open Access to Ohio State-authored articles. The agreement is a three-year pilot which gives Ohio State ongoing access to Taylor & Francis's collection of more than 2,300 journals as well as covering the Open Access publishing costs of articles published by Ohio State corresponding authors in Taylor & Francis journals that offer Open Access (Taylor & Francis Open Select, Routledge Open Select, Taylor & Francis Open, Routledge Open, Cogent OA). Ohio State corresponding authors will be able to publish their articles Open Access immediately upon publication without paying article processing charges (APCs).
What journal titles are included in the agreement?

A list of the Read titles included in the agreement, current as of July 16, 2020, is available as an Excel file of Read titles. A list of the Publish titles included in the agreement, current as of July 3, 2020, is available as an Excel file of Publish titles. We recommend visiting tandfonline.com for the most up-to-date title lists.
When will Ohio State authors be able to publish Open Access with Taylor & Francis and have the APCs covered by this agreement?

Beginning July 8, 2020, Ohio State corresponding authors can make articles published in Taylor & Francis journals openly available at the time of publication at no cost to the author.
Who is eligible to participate in funding for Open Access Article Processing Charges (APCs)?

Corresponding authors affiliated with Ohio State upon acceptance of their article are eligible to participate. When submitting, an Ohio State email address should be used, and The Ohio State University affiliation should be stated.
Are all publication types included in the Publish agreement?

Articles, such as original papers and review papers, are eligible for funding. Manuscript types which are not Articles, such as Editorials, Announcements, Commentaries, Reports, and Book Reviews, are not covered by this Open Access publishing agreement.
Are there any costs for authors to participate in Open Access publishing?

The article processing charges (APCs) for publishing Open Access under the new agreement are covered in full for currently affiliated Ohio State corresponding authors. If the journal has additional costs, such as page charges or color charges, these fees will still apply and will not be covered by the agreement.
How long will Open Access publishing charges be covered by this agreement?

The new agreement with Taylor & Francis is a three-year pilot beginning in July 2020.
How are articles published for Ohio State authors choosing to publish Open Access under this agreement?

An Open Access publishing agreement will be used for authors to retain rights and publish with a Creative Commons license. Taylor & Francis offers a range of Creative Commons licenses for authors publishing Open Access, including CC BY.
Does Taylor & Francis have information available about the Publish agreement on their site?

Yes, Taylor & Francis includes information about the Publish agreement with Ohio State as part of their online Author Services. Visit the Taylor & Francis Author Services page for the Ohio State Open Access agreement for more information.
Whom can I contact with questions?

For questions about the Taylor & Francis Read and Publish agreement, content availability, or publishing Open Access please contact us at TransformPublishing@osu.edu

Questions?

Please contact us, TransformPublishing@osu.edu, with any questions about the Taylor & Francis Read and Publish agreement.

More Information about Transforming Scholarly Publishing @ Ohio State is available on the home page for our Transforming the Scholarly Publishing Economy Initiative.
