If you’re a corresponding author affiliated with The Ohio State University, you can now choose to make your articles gold open access (OA) in Taylor & Francis Group journals without needing to pay an article publishing charge.

Ohio State University Libraries logoThis pilot program, which runs until the end of 2022, is part of a ‘read & publish’ agreement that also gives The Ohio State University community ongoing access to more than 2,400 Taylor & Francis journals.

If you choose to make an article open access through this agreement, you’ll retain copyright and can select a Creative Commons license from the choices offered by the journal. The agreement covers full and hybrid open access Taylor & Francis and Routledge journals. On publication your article will then be free for anyone to read, anywhere, forever.
I’m a corresponding author at Ohio State. What do I need to do to publish open access at no cost to me under this agreement?

    Submit your manuscript to a Taylor & Francis Open Select, Routledge Open Select, Taylor & Francis Open, or Routledge Open journal. You should use an Ohio State email address and state your affiliation with The Ohio State University in your submission.
    Once the article has been accepted, you (the corresponding author) will receive an email with instructions for publication.
        Choose “Yes” when you are shown the option to publish open access and select “Ohio State University” from the institution drop down menu when you enter the Quotation Service. You will then need to sign the Author Publishing Agreement.
        You may also respond to the email from Taylor & Francis (within 7 days) if you wish to request open access. The Ohio State University Libraries will approve funding if eligibility requirements are met. You will then receive an email informing you of the decision and a separate email with a link to sign the Author Publishing Agreement.
    Choose an open access publishing agreement. Please select the Creative Commons license of your choice. You will not need to pay an article publishing charge (APC) to make your article open access if it meets the eligibility requirements and is approved for funding by The Ohio State University Libraries.

If you have any questions about the process, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Frequently asked questions
Which articles are covered by this agreement?

This agreement covers articles accepted for publication between July 8, 2020 and December 31, 2022 by Ohio State corresponding authors published in Taylor & Francis and Routledge Open and Open Select (hybrid) journals. Use the open access cost finder for the full list of journals offering open access publication options.
Are all publication types included in the Publish agreement?

Articles, such as original papers and review papers, are eligible for funding. Manuscript types which are not Articles, such as Editorials, Announcements, Reports, and Book Reviews, are not covered by this open access publishing agreement.
Do I have to pay any fees to publish my article?

The article publishing charges (APCs) for publishing open access are covered in full under the new agreement for currently affiliated Ohio State corresponding authors. If the journal has additional costs, such as page charges or color charges, these fees will still apply and will not be covered by the agreement.
Questions?

Please contact The Ohio State University Libraries for further details.
Further information

For more details about this agreement, please visit The Ohio State University Libraries website.