Publishing Open Access 
with Taylor & Francis | the basics 
What is Open Access? 
Open Access (OA) means you can publish your 
research so it is free to access online as soon 
as it is published, meaning anyone can read 
(and cite) your work. 
Publishing OA also means published research can 
generally be re-used by third parties with few, or 
no, restrictions. 
Why publish OA? 
Choosing to publish OA has many benefits: 
. It can increase the discoverability of your research. 
This increased visibility has the potential to lead to a 
larger readership which, in turn, could result in more 
citations, both of which can help your career or funding 
prospects. But don’t just take our word for it: 
of Taylor & Francis authors agreed or strongly 
agreed that OA offers a wider circulation than 
publishing in a subscription journal 
(<a href="www.tandfonline.com/page/openaccess/ 
opensurvey/2014">) 
. Because they are free to access as soon as they are 
published, research articles published OA have the 
potential to reach a wide audience, often beyond 
their traditional subject fields and outside 
academia. 
agreed or strongly agreed that OA offers 
greater visibility 
(<a href="www.tandfonline.com/page/openaccess/ 
opensurvey/2014">) 
. No barriers to readership can benefit interdisciplinary 
research, or research that is likely to be of interest to the 
media; it’s also ideal if you want your research to reach 
and influence policymakers or practitioners. 
Green and Gold: OA publishing 
choices from Taylor & Francis 
Taylor & Francis want to help you to publish in the journal 
that suits you and your research best, using the publishing 
model that’s most applicable to your work, funder 
requirements and personal preference. That’s why we offer 
both Gold and Green OA on our journals. 
of authors who had published OA with Taylor 
& Francis rated their likelihood of recommending 
Taylor & Francis to a colleague as 7 or above out 
of 10 (Taylor & Francis Author Survey, 2016) 
What is ‘Gold’ OA? 
When you publish Gold OA, the final, typeset and 
copyedited version of a journal article (known as the 
“Version of Record”) is published free-to-access online 
immediately on publication. 
You can share your final published article any way you 
want – so talk about it on social media, include it on 
academic networking sites, or post it on your departmental 
or personal website or in a repository, all increasing the 
reach and potential impact of your work. 
To publish Gold OA you, your funder, or your institution will 
usually pay an article publishing charge (APC), which 
should be paid after your paper has been accepted 
(post-peer review) and before publication. Waivers are 
available for researchers in emerging regions, or under 
special circumstances, plus offers are available on 
individual journals throughout the year. You can check 
what the current APC is on any Taylor & Francis 
journal by going to the journal’s Instructions for 
Authors page at <a href="www.tandfonline.com">. 
Publishing Gold OA also means you, as the author or 
co-author, retain copyright to your work. At Taylor & 
Francis you publish under the terms of a “License to 
Publish”, which links to the Creative Commons license of 
your choice. This approach ensures you have choice in how 
others re-use, and build upon, your work. 
81% 
65% 
82%

What is ‘Green’ OA? 
Green OA at Taylor & Francis means earlier versions of a 
published article, such as the “Accepted Manuscript” (the 
version that’s been through peer review but hasn’t yet been 
copyedited, typeset or metadata applied to it) can be 
archived and accessed in repositories or databases, 
usually following an embargo period. Under Green OA, 
you will assign copyright to Taylor & Francis in the 
traditional manner. 
What is Open and Open Select? 
To ensure you can publish in a journal that’s tailored to 
your research field, we have two OA publishing programs: 
Open and Open Select. 
. Over 150 (and growing) ‘full’ OA journals, where every 
article is published OA and where authors have a choice 
of publishing licenses. 
. Over 2,300 ‘hybrid’ journals, which include both OA 
(freely accessible) and traditional (accessed via a 
subscription) research articles. Every researcher 
publishing in an Open Select journal is offered the choice 
to publish OA as soon as their article has been accepted 
(post-peer review). 
Applying the same high standards 
through peer review, production and 
into publication 
At Taylor & Francis (including on our Routledge journals) all 
published articles go through rigorous peer review, whether 
they’re published Gold or Green OA, in a traditional journal 
or via Open or Open Select. Anyone reading or publishing a 
research article in one of our journals can be re-assured 
that the same high standards have been applied 
throughout peer review, production and into publication. 
of authors who had published OA with Taylor 
& Francis rated their satisfaction with the 
reviewing process as 7 or above out of 10 
(Taylor & Francis Author Survey, 2016) 
Committed to offering the very 
best practice in OA publishing 
As members of OASPA (Open Access Scholarly Publishing 
Association), and with many of our journals in the Directory 
of Open Access Journals (DOAJ), Taylor & Francis is fully 
committed to driving and promoting best practice in OA 
publishing. 
We take a flexible, evidence-based approach to developing 
our policies, informed by our author and OA surveys, the 
views of librarians and funders, and projects such as the 
“zero embargo” pilot currently running on our Library and 
Information Science, and Archives and Heritage journals 
(authorservices.taylorandfrancis.com/author-rightspilot). 
We also share our findings with the wider scholarly 
community, to ensure we are meeting the needs and 
priorities of the researchers, librarians, institutions, and 
funding bodies we work with. 
Find out more about our OA journals | 
<a href="www.tandfonline.com/page/openaccess"> 
With advice for (soon-to-be) OA authors | 
<a href="authorservices.taylorandfrancis.com/publishing-open-access-with-taylor-francis"> 
86%

